add documentation for ipv6 rotator (#450)
iv-org/documentation: docs/ipv6-rotator.md

# Rotate your IPv6 address for escaping YouTube blockage

> This tutorial has been writen by [unixfox](https://github.com/unixfox), owner of [yewtu.be](https://yewtu.be/)

Author: I removed it, it's an official solution not just from me.

> This tutorial has been writen by [unixfox](https://github.com/unixfox), owner of [yewtu.be](https://yewtu.be/)

Reviewer: Discussed on Matrix, resolved.

## Synopsis

YouTube has started to periodically block the public Invidious instances since the start of June 2023 ([iv-org/invidious/issues/3872](https://github.com/iv-org/invidious/issues/3872)) and they have became more aggressive about it since the start of August 2023 ([iv-org/invidious/issues/4045](https://github.com/iv-org/invidious/issues/4045)).

Thanks to IPv6 you can easily escape this blockage because they are many addresses in a single /64 IPv6 range. (18,446,744,073,709,551,616 addresses to be precise)

This tutorial will explain how to automatically and periodically rotate your IPv6 address. Also some notes about how to have IPv6 in case your provider do not offer it.

## Requirements
#### 1) IPv6 support on your server
##### Testing

> You can easily find out if you have IPv6 by executing the command `curl -m 5 ipv6.icanhazip.com`.   

Author: it may take way too much time to timeout that's why I'm setting it to 5

If you do not have any errors, then congratulation, you can continue to the second requirement!

If do have an error (timeout or no route to host), then you will need to enable IPv6 support on your server.  
Depending on your provider and if it does support IPv6, you may have to configure your server for IPv6. Check the documentation of your provider.

##### Other solutions if you do not have IPv6 support

If your provider does not support IPv6 then you can either switch to another provider that support IPv6. There are many today that do support it, here is a non-exhaustive list of them:

> Hetzner, BuyVM, Scaleway, OVH, Oracle Cloud, AWS, DigitalOcean, Vultr, Incognet, Netcup and more. Larger list: https://www.serverhunter.com/#query=ips%3Aipv6   

Author: we need to suggest something to the instances owners because they are people that do not know. we can say we recommend nobody, it's just some popular ones

> Hetzner, BuyVM, Scaleway, OVH, Oracle Cloud, AWS, DigitalOcean, Vultr, Incognet, Netcup and more. Larger list: https://www.serverhunter.com/#query=ips%3Aipv6   

Reviewer: >There are many today that do support it, here is a non-exhaustive list of them:

change it to: `There are many today that do support it, here is a non-exhaustive list of popular providers:`

(and remove the awful one privacy-wise like Oracle and AWS)

> Hetzner, BuyVM, Scaleway, OVH, Oracle Cloud, AWS, DigitalOcean, Vultr, Incognet, Netcup and more. Larger list: https://www.serverhunter.com/#query=ips%3Aipv6   

Author: I re-wrote to:
```
There are many today that do support it, here is a non-exhaustive list of them (**this is not recommendation, just a list of the popular providers that support IPv6**):
```

I removed oracle cloud and AWS just because they won't work with my project.

Nowadays, it's hard to find one that do not support IPv6.

The alternative if you do not want to switch provider is to use an IPv6 tunnelbroker, it allows to get IPv6 connectivity using another server.

This website list all the free and paid existing tunnelbrokers: https://tunnelbroker.services/. **Ideally, we do not recommend running a public instance on a free tunnelbroker as this would put a lot of strain on their network because video streaming consume a lot of bandwidth.**  
You can also use an external server for acting as a tunnelbroker.  
But all of this is out of scope of this tutorial, please consult the internet for tutorials.

#### 2) System packages requirement
Please install:
- python requests library.
   Debian/Ubuntu: sudo apt install python3-requests
   Other Linux distributions: sudo yourpackagemanager install python-requests
- python pyroute2 library.
   Debian/Ubuntu: sudo apt install python3-pyroute2

>    Other Linux distributions: sudo yourpackagemanager install python-pyroute2

Reviewer 2: You should add code formatting here using \`code\`

Author: done

## Configure Invidious for IPv6
### If you are running Invidious outside of Docker or using something else than Docker (K8s)
You probably have nothing to do!

Except checking in your config.yml if you do not have this line set:
```
force_resolve: ipv4
```

Or if you are on Kubernetes, check that your pods have IPv6 connectivity. But you probably already know that if you are using Kubernetes.

### If you are running Invidious in Docker

> Note: You probably need a recent version of Docker for best compatibility if something do not work here.

Author: Rewrote to `Note: Make sure you are running a recent version of Docker if you are running into IPv6 issues.`

1. Follow the steps 1 to 3 on the official documentation for Docker: https://docs.docker.com/config/daemon/ipv6/
2. In your docker-compose file of invidious. Add these lines at the end of your docker-compose
   ```yaml
   networks:
     default:
       enable_ipv6: true
       ipam:
         config:
           - subnet: fd01:db8:a::/64
             gateway: fd01:db8:a::1

   ```
3. Bring down your docker composition and bring it back up for recreating the network:
    ```
    docker compose down
    docker compose up -d
   ```
 
For checking if everything went great then do `docker compose exec invidious ping -c 1 ipv6.icanhazip.com` and if you do not get errors then you can jump to the next step.

## Configure the IPv6 rotator (made by Invidious team)
This tool was developed by the Invidious team, and it's the official tool for rotating your IPv6 address on Invidious: https://github.com/iv-org/smart-ipv6-rotator.  
It may be used on other projects that depend on YouTube and/or Google (example: Piped or SearXNG).

1. Make sure you have installed all the python libraries from the "requirements".

> 2. Git clone the repository somewhere that you like (not inside the invidious directory):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Clone the repository somewhere that you like (not inside the invidious directory):
```

(standard way to say it)

   ```
   git clone https://github.com/iv-org/smart-ipv6-rotator.git
   ```
3. Find the IPv6 subnet of your server, usually it's written on your provider website.
    But you can easily find it using this tool: http://www.gestioip.net/cgi-bin/subnet_calculator.cgi. Enter the main IPv6 address, select IPv6 and change the prefix length only if it's not a /64.
    Use the command `ip a` to get the detail of your IPv6 network configuration.
4. Run the script once like this (don't use sudo if you are already root):

>    ```

Reviewer: Markdown technically expect a blank line before a code block.

   sudo python smart-ipv6-rotator.py run --ipv6range=YOURIPV6SUBNET/64
   ```
5. If everything went well, then configure a cron to periodically rotate your IPv6 range. Twice a day (noon and midnight) is enough for YouTube servers. Also at the reboot of the server!
    Example crontab (`crontab -e -u root`):
   ```
   @reboot sleep 30s && python smart-ipv6-rotator.py run --ipv6range=YOURIPV6SUBNET/64
   0 */12 * * * python smart-ipv6-rotator.py run --ipv6range=YOURIPV6SUBNET/64
   ```

>     The sleep command is useful in case your networking may take some time to be ready.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The `sleep` command is used in case your network takes too much time time to be ready.
```
